.TH PLL 3 "1 Sep 2013"
.SH NAME
PLL \- Phylogenetic Likelihood Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.NF
#include <pll.h>
.sp
[see
.I pll.h
for full description]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I PLL
is a software library for phylogenetic inference. The code is thread safe, and
optimized for the
.I Advanced Vector Extensions 
(AVX) and the
.I Streaming SIMD Extensions
(SSE)
instruction set extensions to the x86 architecture.
.LP
.I  PLL
supports DNA and protein partitioned analysis. For DNA partitions the GTR model is supported
and for protein partitions the models 
.IR DAYHOFF ,
.IR DCMUT ,
.IR JTT ,
.IR MTREV ,
.IR WAG ,
.IR RTREV ,
.IR CPREV ,
.IR VT ,
.IR BLOSUM62 ,
.IR MTMAM ,
.IR LG
.IR MTART ,
.IR MTZOA ,
.IR PMB ,
.IR HIVB ,
.IR HIVW ,
.IR JTTDCMUT ,
.IR FLU ,
.IR LG4
and
.IR GTR
are supported. In addition the model
.IR AUTO
is available for auto-detecting the best model for the specific partition.
.LP
.IR PLL
is available at
.IP
http://www.libpll.org
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The
.I PLL
web site can be found at
.IP
http://www.libpll.org
.LP
Another library for phylogenetic inference is
.I beagle-lib
which is available at
.IP
https://code.google.com/p/beagle-lib/
.SH "REPORTING PROBLEMS"
Before reporting a problem,
please check the
.I PLL
web site to verify that you have the latest version of
.IR PLL ;
otherwise,
obtain the latest version and see if the problem persists.
Please browse through the 
.I PLL
mailing list before asking for help.
.SH AUTHORS
Version 0.9.0
Copyright (C) 2013 Tomas Flouri (Tomas.Flouri@h-its.org) and Alexandros Stamatakis (Alexandros.Stamatakis@h-its.org).
.LP
This software is provided "as-is,"
without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will the authors be help liable for any damages
arising from the use of this software.
See the distribution directory with respect to requirements
governing redistribution.
The
.IR PLL 
codebase started from 
.IR RAxML 
by Alexandros Stamatakis.
Thanks to all people who contributed to the code and suggested various
implrovements in 
.IR PLL ; 
who are too numerous to cite here.
